CodeAcademyNotes.md, before:

# Day 1 - 7 - Free trial period
### Date 8/14/2021

### Link
 - [Code Academy Home Page](https://www.codecademy.com/learn)

## Syllabus Outline
1. [CS101: Introduction to Programming](#CS101:_Introduction_to_Programming)
  - [Python: Hello World](#hello_world)
  - [Python: Control Flow](#control_flow)
  - [Navigating the File System](#Navigating_the_File_System)
  - [Python: Lists](#lists)
1. [CS102: Data Structures and Algorithms](#CS102:_Data_Structures_and_Algorithms)
1. [CS103: Databases](#CS103:_Databases)
1. [CS104: Computer Architecture](#CS104:_Computer_Architecture)
1. [CS105: Discrete Math](#CS105:_Discrete_Math)

## vocabulary



# CS101: Introduction to Programming

## Hello World
- Comments - Python interprets anything after a # as a comment
- Print() function is used to tell a computer ot talk
- Strings - Blocks of text - can use either single or double quotes "shooters choice"
- Variables - python assigns variables with the ( = ) equals sign
- Errors - python recognizes 2 types of primary errors syntax errors and name errors
  - SyntaxErrors include punctuation, or misplaced commands, or missing parenthesis
  - NameErrors occur when python sees a word it does not recognize - or there is a variable that was never defined
- Numbers - numeric data types -
  - an_int is a whole number
  - a_float is a decimal
- Calculations - python uses standard calcs (+,-, *, /) it will convert math into a float before calculating division
  - a ZeroDivisionError can occur if an attempt to divide by 0 occurs
- Changing Numbers - reassigning the variable will allow the developer to change the value with out adjusting the original amount.
- Adding strings and calculations require the use of a comma to seperate, rather than concatenation
<!-- quilt_width = 8
quilt_length = 12

print(quilt_width*quilt_length)

quilt_length = 8

print("I will need", quilt_width * quilt_length ,"squares for my quilt") -->

- Exponents - to do math with exponents python will utilize the ** operator
<!-- print(6 ** 2) expected result = 36-->

- Modulo - companion to the division operator indicated with %, which will return the remainder of a division calc
<!-- print(29 % 5) expected result = 4 -->
  - useful when we want to run a command every nth-time the code is run
  - This will return 0 if there is no remainder (4 % 2)

- String Concatenation - Python supports concatenation of string together using the + operator
  - To concatenate a string with a number - str() function
  - to print the value as numeric use a comma to pass in different arguments, rather than convert the number to a string

- Plus Equals - The plus equals operator += provides a convenient way to add a value to an existing variable and assign the new value back to th same variable.
  - if the variable and the value are strings the operator performs concatenation instead of addition
  - The operation is performed in-place, meaning that any other variable which points to the variable being updated will also be updated

- Multi-line Strings - using 3 quotes tells the program that the string doesnt end until the next triple quotes (''') or (""")

### Block Letters
- Block letters are created using ASCII art - example below is my initials
<!-- first_initial = '''
JJJJJ  IIIII
  J      I
  J      I
  J      I
  J      I
J J      I
J J      I
 JJ    IIIII
'''

print(first_initial) -->

### Lovely Loveseats
- task only - string concatenation and += operator work

## Control Flow
- Python executes code from the top down, until there is nothing left to run
    - conditional statements - these are controlled gateways, that give the computer conditions, that tell the computer when it should execute certain functions

- Boolean Expressions - True false statements
- Relational Operators: Equal (==) and Not Equals (!=)
- Boolean Variables - True and false are their own special type of character called a 'bool'
  - any value that is assigned with T or F is called a boolean variable
- If statements -

<!-- # Enter a user name here, make sure to make it a string
user_name = 'Jeff'

if user_name == 'dave':
  print ("Get off my computer Dave!")

if user_name == 'angela_catlady_87':
  print ("I know it is you, Dave! Go away!") -->


- Other Relational Operators
    > greater than
    >= greater than or equal to
    < less than
    <= less than or equal to

- Boolean Operators:
  - and - combines 2 boolean expressions and evaluates if both components are true,but false otherwise
        - Oranges are a fruit *and* carrots are a vegetable. = true
  - or - combines two expressions into a larger expression that is true if either component is true
        - Oranges are a fruit or apples are a vegetable. = true
        - True or (3 + 4 == 7)    # True
          (1 - 1 == 0) or False   # True
          (2 < 0) or True         # True
          (3 == 8) or (3 > 4)     # False
  - not - When applied to any boolean expression it reverses the boolean value
        - not True == False
          not False == True
<!-- credits = 120
gpa = 1.8

if not credits >= 120:
  print("You do not have enough credits to graduate.")

if not gpa >= 2.0:
   print("Your GPA is not high enough to graduate.")

if not (credits >= 120) and not (gpa >= 2.0):
   print("You do not meet either requirement to graduate!") -->

  - Else Statements - allows us to describe what we want our code to do when certain conditions are not met
      -always appear in conjunction with if statements
  - Else if statements - elif statements check another condition after the previous if statements conditions arent met
      - this allows for continuous checks after the initial if statement
      - When it finds a true statement it executes the code within that section - no further statements will be evaluated - if no true statements exist it executes the else statement
  
### Magic 8-Ball
  - generate random number in python
      <!-- - random_number = random.randint(1,9) -->
- code for the magic 8-ball logic

<!-- import random

# set up variables
name = 'jeff'
question = 'will today be a great day?'
answer = ''
random_number = random.randint(1,10)
if name == '':
  print ('Question: ', question)

# print(random_number)

# control flow - core logic
if random_number == 1:
  answer = 'Yes - definitely.'
elif random_number == 2:
  answer = 'It is decidedly so.'
elif random_number == 3:
  answer = 'Without a doubt.'
elif random_number == 4:
  answer = 'Reply hazy, try again.'
elif random_number == 5:
  answer = 'Ask again later.'
elif random_number == 6:
  answer = 'Better not tell you now.'
elif random_number == 7:
  answer = 'My sources say no.'
elif random_number == 8:
  answer = 'Outlook not so good.'
elif random_number == 9:
  answer = 'Very doubtful.'
else:
  #purposely added an error state by including the number 10
  answer = 'Error'




print(name, 'asks:', question)
print("Magic 8-ball's answer:", answer) -->


### Sal's Shipping
 - Ground, Premium, and Drone shipping rates applied and MVP achieved
<!-- weight = 41.5
drone_shipping_weight = 41.5
ground_flat_charge = 20.00
premium_ground_charge = 125.00

# Ground shipping
if weight <=2:
  cost_ground = weight*1.50
elif weight <=6:
  cost_ground = weight*3.00
elif weight <=10:
  cost_ground = weight*4.00
else:
  cost_ground = weight*4.75

# Drone Shipping
if drone_shipping_weight <=2:
  cost_drone = drone_shipping_weight*4.50
elif drone_shipping_weight <=6:
  cost_drone = drone_shipping_weight*9.00
elif drone_shipping_weight <=10:
  cost_drone = drone_shipping_weight*12.00
else:
  cost_drone = drone_shipping_weight*14.25



print('Ground Shipping General: $', cost_ground + ground_flat_charge)
print('Ground Shipping Premium: $', premium_ground_charge)
print('Drone Shipping Cost: $', cost_drone) -->

### Errors in Python
- Syntax errors - means there is something wrong with the way your program is written
  - punctuation
  - command where its not expected
  - missing or mismatched parenthesis

  - common Syntax errors
    - misspelled a python word
    - missing colon
    - missing closing parenthesis, square bracket, or curly brace
- Name Errors - when python detects a variable that is unknown
  - common Name errors
    - missing a variable name
    - not defining a variable
    - misspelling variable names
- Type Errors - reported by the Python interpreter when an operation is applied to a variable of an inappropriate type
  - piggy_bank = '2' + 2.25 # type error because one is a string and the other a number
  
  - Common Type errors
    - Accidentally adding or subtracting a string value
    - Call a function on something of the incorrect type
- Logic errors - Errors found by the programmer when the program isn’t doing what it is intending to do.

## Navigating the File System
- BASH - Born again Shell
- The command line is a text interface for yyour computer - its a program that takes commands and passes them to the computers operating system to run.

- Filesystem - organizes a computers files and directories into a tree structure
  - the first directory is the root directory
  - each parent dir can contain more child dir and files

@ bicycle world exercise
 - series of commands using th e command line
    - pwd
    - cd
    - mkdir
    - cd .. and cd ../..
    - touch

## Python: List
- a list is a built in data structure that allows us to work with a collection of data in sequential order
<!-- heights = [61, 70, 67, 64, 65] -->
- list can hold any data type in python
<!-- sam_height_and_testscore = ['Sam', 67, 85.5, True]  -->

### Growing a list: Plus (+)
  - using a + will allow you to concatenate a list by either adding items to the end of the list or by combining lists through thier variables

### Accessing list Elements

Commit message:

working with lists - modify module finished

CodeAcademyNotes.md, after:

# Day 1 - 7 - Free trial period
### Date 8/14/2021

### Link
 - [Code Academy Home Page](https://www.codecademy.com/learn)

## Syllabus Outline
1. [CS101: Introduction to Programming](#CS101:_Introduction_to_Programming)
  - [Python: Hello World](#hello_world)
  - [Python: Control Flow](#control_flow)
  - [Navigating the File System](#Navigating_the_File_System)
  - [Python: Lists](#lists)
1. [CS102: Data Structures and Algorithms](#CS102:_Data_Structures_and_Algorithms)
1. [CS103: Databases](#CS103:_Databases)
1. [CS104: Computer Architecture](#CS104:_Computer_Architecture)
1. [CS105: Discrete Math](#CS105:_Discrete_Math)

## vocabulary



# CS101: Introduction to Programming

## Hello World
- Comments - Python interprets anything after a # as a comment
- Print() function is used to tell a computer ot talk
- Strings - Blocks of text - can use either single or double quotes "shooters choice"
- Variables - python assigns variables with the ( = ) equals sign
- Errors - python recognizes 2 types of primary errors syntax errors and name errors
  - SyntaxErrors include punctuation, or misplaced commands, or missing parenthesis
  - NameErrors occur when python sees a word it does not recognize - or there is a variable that was never defined
- Numbers - numeric data types -
  - an_int is a whole number
  - a_float is a decimal
- Calculations - python uses standard calcs (+,-, *, /) it will convert math into a float before calculating division
  - a ZeroDivisionError can occur if an attempt to divide by 0 occurs
- Changing Numbers - reassigning the variable will allow the developer to change the value with out adjusting the original amount.
- Adding strings and calculations require the use of a comma to seperate, rather than concatenation
<!-- quilt_width = 8
quilt_length = 12

print(quilt_width*quilt_length)

quilt_length = 8

print("I will need", quilt_width * quilt_length ,"squares for my quilt") -->

- Exponents - to do math with exponents python will utilize the ** operator
<!-- print(6 ** 2) expected result = 36-->

- Modulo - companion to the division operator indicated with %, which will return the remainder of a division calc
<!-- print(29 % 5) expected result = 4 -->
  - useful when we want to run a command every nth-time the code is run
  - This will return 0 if there is no remainder (4 % 2)

- String Concatenation - Python supports concatenation of string together using the + operator
  - To concatenate a string with a number - str() function
  - to print the value as numeric use a comma to pass in different arguments, rather than convert the number to a string

- Plus Equals - The plus equals operator += provides a convenient way to add a value to an existing variable and assign the new value back to th same variable.
  - if the variable and the value are strings the operator performs concatenation instead of addition
  - The operation is performed in-place, meaning that any other variable which points to the variable being updated will also be updated

- Multi-line Strings - using 3 quotes tells the program that the string doesnt end until the next triple quotes (''') or (""")

### Block Letters
- Block letters are created using ASCII art - example below is my initials
<!-- first_initial = '''
JJJJJ  IIIII
  J      I
  J      I
  J      I
  J      I
J J      I
J J      I
 JJ    IIIII
'''

print(first_initial) -->

### Lovely Loveseats
- task only - string concatenation and += operator work

## Control Flow
- Python executes code from the top down, until there is nothing left to run
    - conditional statements - these are controlled gateways, that give the computer conditions, that tell the computer when it should execute certain functions

- Boolean Expressions - True false statements
- Relational Operators: Equal (==) and Not Equals (!=)
- Boolean Variables - True and false are their own special type of character called a 'bool'
  - any value that is assigned with T or F is called a boolean variable
- If statements -

<!-- # Enter a user name here, make sure to make it a string
user_name = 'Jeff'

if user_name == 'dave':
  print ("Get off my computer Dave!")

if user_name == 'angela_catlady_87':
  print ("I know it is you, Dave! Go away!") -->


- Other Relational Operators
    > greater than
    >= greater than or equal to
    < less than
    <= less than or equal to

- Boolean Operators:
  - and - combines 2 boolean expressions and evaluates if both components are true,but false otherwise
        - Oranges are a fruit *and* carrots are a vegetable. = true
  - or - combines two expressions into a larger expression that is true if either component is true
        - Oranges are a fruit or apples are a vegetable. = true
        - True or (3 + 4 == 7)    # True
          (1 - 1 == 0) or False   # True
          (2 < 0) or True         # True
          (3 == 8) or (3 > 4)     # False
  - not - When applied to any boolean expression it reverses the boolean value
        - not True == False
          not False == True
<!-- credits = 120
gpa = 1.8

if not credits >= 120:
  print("You do not have enough credits to graduate.")

if not gpa >= 2.0:
   print("Your GPA is not high enough to graduate.")

if not (credits >= 120) and not (gpa >= 2.0):
   print("You do not meet either requirement to graduate!") -->

  - Else Statements - allows us to describe what we want our code to do when certain conditions are not met
      -always appear in conjunction with if statements
  - Else if statements - elif statements check another condition after the previous if statements conditions arent met
      - this allows for continuous checks after the initial if statement
      - When it finds a true statement it executes the code within that section - no further statements will be evaluated - if no true statements exist it executes the else statement
  
### Magic 8-Ball
  - generate random number in python
      <!-- - random_number = random.randint(1,9) -->
- code for the magic 8-ball logic

<!-- import random

# set up variables
name = 'jeff'
question = 'will today be a great day?'
answer = ''
random_number = random.randint(1,10)
if name == '':
  print ('Question: ', question)

# print(random_number)

# control flow - core logic
if random_number == 1:
  answer = 'Yes - definitely.'
elif random_number == 2:
  answer = 'It is decidedly so.'
elif random_number == 3:
  answer = 'Without a doubt.'
elif random_number == 4:
  answer = 'Reply hazy, try again.'
elif random_number == 5:
  answer = 'Ask again later.'
elif random_number == 6:
  answer = 'Better not tell you now.'
elif random_number == 7:
  answer = 'My sources say no.'
elif random_number == 8:
  answer = 'Outlook not so good.'
elif random_number == 9:
  answer = 'Very doubtful.'
else:
  #purposely added an error state by including the number 10
  answer = 'Error'




print(name, 'asks:', question)
print("Magic 8-ball's answer:", answer) -->


### Sal's Shipping
 - Ground, Premium, and Drone shipping rates applied and MVP achieved
<!-- weight = 41.5
drone_shipping_weight = 41.5
ground_flat_charge = 20.00
premium_ground_charge = 125.00

# Ground shipping
if weight <=2:
  cost_ground = weight*1.50
elif weight <=6:
  cost_ground = weight*3.00
elif weight <=10:
  cost_ground = weight*4.00
else:
  cost_ground = weight*4.75

# Drone Shipping
if drone_shipping_weight <=2:
  cost_drone = drone_shipping_weight*4.50
elif drone_shipping_weight <=6:
  cost_drone = drone_shipping_weight*9.00
elif drone_shipping_weight <=10:
  cost_drone = drone_shipping_weight*12.00
else:
  cost_drone = drone_shipping_weight*14.25



print('Ground Shipping General: $', cost_ground + ground_flat_charge)
print('Ground Shipping Premium: $', premium_ground_charge)
print('Drone Shipping Cost: $', cost_drone) -->

### Errors in Python
- Syntax errors - means there is something wrong with the way your program is written
  - punctuation
  - command where its not expected
  - missing or mismatched parenthesis

  - common Syntax errors
    - misspelled a python word
    - missing colon
    - missing closing parenthesis, square bracket, or curly brace
- Name Errors - when python detects a variable that is unknown
  - common Name errors
    - missing a variable name
    - not defining a variable
    - misspelling variable names
- Type Errors - reported by the Python interpreter when an operation is applied to a variable of an inappropriate type
  - piggy_bank = '2' + 2.25 # type error because one is a string and the other a number
  
  - Common Type errors
    - Accidentally adding or subtracting a string value
    - Call a function on something of the incorrect type
- Logic errors - Errors found by the programmer when the program isn’t doing what it is intending to do.

## Navigating the File System
- BASH - Born again Shell
- The command line is a text interface for yyour computer - its a program that takes commands and passes them to the computers operating system to run.

- Filesystem - organizes a computers files and directories into a tree structure
  - the first directory is the root directory
  - each parent dir can contain more child dir and files

@ bicycle world exercise
 - series of commands using th e command line
    - pwd
    - cd
    - mkdir
    - cd .. and cd ../..
    - touch

## Python: List
- a list is a built in data structure that allows us to work with a collection of data in sequential order
<!-- heights = [61, 70, 67, 64, 65] -->
- list can hold any data type in python
<!-- sam_height_and_testscore = ['Sam', 67, 85.5, True]  -->

### Growing a list: Plus (+)
  - using a + will allow you to concatenate a list by either adding items to the end of the list or by combining lists through their variables

### Accessing list Elements
 - Python lists are zero-indexed
 - using the print(variable_name[]) function it has to be an int, using a float will cause an error
 - this causes issues if you attempt a divide function inside a  function - you must force it to use an int by doing the following
    <!-- - print(variable_name[int(4/2)])  - which will print out the int (2) -->

### Accessing list elements: Negative Index
  - We can use the -1 to select the last item of a list, even when we do not know how many elements are in a list

### Modifying list elements
  - to modify an element in a list use identify the list element and change the value
<!-- garden_waitlist = ["Jiho", "Adam", "Sonny", "Alisha"]

garden_waitlist[1] = "Calla"
garden_waitlist[-1] = "Alex"


print(garden_waitlist) -->

### Shrinking a list: Remove
- We can remove elements ina list using the .remove() python method
